Documentation for Prefect Cloud's webhooks (#9857)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/cloud/webhooks.md

        "producing-team": "Data Science"
    }
}
```

!!! tip "Make sure to produce valid JSON"

    The output of your template, when rendered, should be a valid string that can be
    parsed, for example, with `json.loads`.

A webhook with this template may be invoked via _any_ of the HTTP methods, including a
`GET` request with no body, so the team you are integrating with can include this at the
end of their daily script:

```bash
curl https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ
```

Each time the script "pings" the webhook like this, the webhook will produce a single
Prefect event with that name and resource in your workspace.

### Event fields that Prefect Cloud populates for you

You may notice that you only had to provide the `event` and `resource` definition, which
is not a completely fleshed out event.  Prefect Cloud will set default values for any
missing fields, like `occurred` and `id`, so that you don't need to set them in your
template.  Additionally, Prefect Cloud will always add the webhook itself as a related
resource on all of the events it produces.

If your template does not produce a `payload` field, the `payload` will default to a

> standard set of debugging information, including the HTTP method, headers, and body.

Reviewer: we sanitizing the headers? yeah right? we should just mention that here

Author: Ah good point!  Most of the headers we're stripping out are ones folks don't need to know about in the first place, just stuff in the Prefect Cloud HTTP serving stack (load balancer and tracing stuff).  We do strip out `Authorization`, I'll mention that here.

### Dynamic webhook events

Now let's say that after a few days you and the Data Science team are getting a lot of
value from the automations you have set up with the static webhook.  You've agreed to
upgrade this webhook to handle all of the various models that they produce.  It's time
to add some dynamic information to your webhook template.

Your colleages in Data Science have adjusted their daily `cron` scripts to `POST` a
small body that includes the ID and name of the model that was just refreshed:

> ```bash

Reviewer: annoyingly this renders as a single line with a horizonatal scroll, can you make this multiline

curl -d "model=recommendations" -d "friendly_name=Recommendations%20[Products]" -X POST https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ
```

This means that they are sending a `POST` request and the body will include a
traditional URL-encoded form with two fields `model` and `friendly_name` describing the
model that was just refreshed.  To receive these in your template and produce different
events for the different models:

```jinja2
{
    "event": "model.refreshed",
    "resource": {
        "prefect.resource.id": "product.models.{{ body.model }}",
        "prefect.resource.name": "{{ body.friendly_name }}",
        "producing-team": "Data Science"
    }
}
```

> All of the subsequent `POST` requests will start to produce events with those variable

Reviewer: what if i have a template like this and I dont want to pass any data, can i specify a server side default? maybe with jinjas default filter? 
  Hey {{ first_name|default("there", true) }},

Author: Ohhhhh that's slick, I'll find a good place to mention that.

        "producing-team": "Data Science"
    }
}
```

The resulting event will be filled out with the default values for `occurred`, `id`, and
other fields as described [above](#event-fields-that-prefect-cloud-populates-for-you).

### Accepting CloudEvents

The [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://cncf.io) has standardized
[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io) for use by systems to exchange event information
in a common format.  These events are supported by major cloud providers and a growing
number of cloud-native systems.  Prefect Cloud can interpret a webhook containing
a CloudEvent natively with the following template:

```jinja2
{{ body|from_cloud_event(headers) }}
```

The resulting event will use the CloudEvent's `subject` as the resource (or the
`source` if no `subject` is available).  The CloudEvent's `data` attribute will become
the Prefect event's `payload['data']`, and the other CloudEvent metadata will be at
`payload['cloudevents']`.  If you would like to handle CloudEvents in a more specific
way tailored to your use case, use a dynamic template to interpret the incoming `body`.

## Troubleshooting

> The initial configuration of your webhook may require some trial and error as you get

Reviewer: link to event concept page

---
description: Observe and react to events from other systems
tags:
    - events
    - automations
    - triggers
    - webhooks
    - Prefect Cloud
---

# Webhooks <span class="badge cloud"></span>

Use webhooks in your Prefect Cloud workspace to receive, observe, and react to events
from other systems in your ecosystem.  Each webhook exposes a unique URL endpoint to

> receive events from other systems and transform them into Prefect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
receive events from other systems and transforms them into Prefect
```

[events](/cloud/events/) for use in [automations](/cloud/automations/).

!!! cloud-ad "Webhooks are only available in Prefect Cloud"

>     As of Q2 2023, Webhooks are configured via the CLI and via the Prefect Cloud API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    As of Q2 2023, webhooks can be configured via the CLI or via the <a href="https://app.prefect.cloud/api/docs" target="_blank"> Prefect Cloud REST API</a>.
```

    Support for managing webhooks with the Prefect Cloud UI is on the roadmap for later

>     in early Q3 2023.

Reviewer 2: If we're going to add a bit on the roadmap, which I'm not sure we have before - probably good to hedge a bit in case things change.

Webhooks are defined by two essential components: a unique URL and a template which
translates incoming web requests to a Prefect event.

## Configuring webhooks

### Via the Prefect Cloud API

Webhooks are managed via the [Webhooks API
endpoints](https://app.prefect.cloud/api/docs#tag/Webhooks).  This is a Prefect
Cloud-only feature, and you will authenticate API calls using the standard
[authentication methods you use with Prefect
Cloud](/cloud/connecting#manually-configure-prefect-api-settings).

### Via the Prefect CLI

> _More information about using the Prefect CLI to manage webhooks coming soon_

Author: Yep I'll mention it in our Cloud tracking issue

## Webhook endpoints

The webhook endpoints have randomly generated opaque URLs that do not divulge any
information about your Prefect Cloud workspace.  They are rooted at

> `https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/`, (for example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/`. For example:
```

> `https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ`).  Prefect Cloud assigns this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ`. 
```

> URL when you create a webhook, and it may not be set via the API.  If you lose

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect Cloud assigns this URL when you create a webhook; it cannot be set via the API.  
```

> confidence that your webhook URL is confidential, you may rotate it at any time without

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may rotate your webhook URL at any time without
```

losing the associated configuration.

All webhooks may accept requests via the most common HTTP methods:

> * `GET`, `HEAD`, `DELETE` may be used for webhooks that define a static event template,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `GET`, `HEAD`, and `DELETE` may be used for webhooks that define a static event template,
```

  or a template that does not depend on the _body_ of the HTTP request.  The headers of
  the request will be available for templates.

> * `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH` may be used when the webhook request will include a body.  See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `POST`, `PUT`, and `PATCH` may be used when the webhook request will include a body.  See
```

Prefect event from it.  You may find that you often have little influence or control
over the format of those requests, so Prefect's webhook system gives you full control
over how you turn those notifications from other systems into meaningful events in your
Prefect Cloud workspace.  The template you define for each webhook will determine how
individual components of the incoming HTTP request become the event name and resource
labels of the resulting Prefect event.

As with the [templates available in Prefect Cloud Automation](/cloud/automations) for
defining notifications and other parameters, you will write templates in
[Jinja2](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/).  All of the built-in
Jinja2 blocks and filters are available, as well as the filters from the
[`jinja2-humanize-extensions`
package](https://pypi.org/project/jinja2-humanize-extension/).

Your goal when defining your event template is to produce a valid JSON object that
defines (at minimum) the `event` name and the `resource["prefect.resource.id"]`, which
are required of all events.  The simplest template is one in which these are statically
defined.

### Static webhook events

> Let's explore an example for static webhook templates.  Pretend that you are configuring

Author: @discdiver, if you've got any advice on how to adjust the voice in this PR I'd appreciate it.  @WillRaphaelson's got a great point, that is is kind of "dungeon-mastery", like "imagine you are in a tavern...".

I wanted to walk through a concrete scenario because I think it helps to illustrate the use cases, but I don't see any other examples in the docs where we do that.

> Let's explore an example for static webhook templates.  Pretend that you are configuring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see a static webhook template example.  Say you want to configure
```

> a webhook that will notify Prefect when your `recommendations` model has been refreshed,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a webhook that will notify Prefect when your `recommendations` machine learning model has been updated,
```

so you can then send a Slack notification to your team and run a few subsequent

> deployments.  Those models are produced on a daily schedule by another team who are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
deployments.  Those models are produced on a daily schedule by another team that is
```

> using `cron` for scheduling, they aren't able to use Prefect for their flows (yet!), but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using `cron` for scheduling. They aren't able to use Prefect for their flows (yet!), but
```

they are happy to add a `curl` to the end of their daily script to notify you.
Because this webhook will only be used for a single event from a single resource, your
template can be entirely static:

```JSON
{
    "event": "model.refreshed",
    "resource": {
        "prefect.resource.id": "product.models.recommendations",
        "prefect.resource.name": "Recommendations [Products]",
        "producing-team": "Data Science"
    }
}
```

!!! tip "Make sure to produce valid JSON"

    The output of your template, when rendered, should be a valid string that can be
    parsed, for example, with `json.loads`.

A webhook with this template may be invoked via _any_ of the HTTP methods, including a

> `GET` request with no body, so the team you are integrating with can include this at the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`GET` request with no body, so the team you are integrating with can include this line at the
```

end of their daily script:

```bash
curl https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ
```

> Each time the script "pings" the webhook like this, the webhook will produce a single

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Each time the script hits the webhook, the webhook will produce a single
```

Prefect event with that name and resource in your workspace.

### Event fields that Prefect Cloud populates for you

You may notice that you only had to provide the `event` and `resource` definition, which
is not a completely fleshed out event.  Prefect Cloud will set default values for any

> missing fields, like `occurred` and `id`, so that you don't need to set them in your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
missing fields, such as `occurred` and `id`, so you don't need to set them in your
```

> template.  Additionally, Prefect Cloud will always add the webhook itself as a related

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
template.  Additionally, Prefect Cloud will add the webhook itself as a related
```

resource on all of the events it produces.

If your template does not produce a `payload` field, the `payload` will default to a
standard set of debugging information, including the HTTP method, headers, and body.

### Dynamic webhook events

Now let's say that after a few days you and the Data Science team are getting a lot of
value from the automations you have set up with the static webhook.  You've agreed to
upgrade this webhook to handle all of the various models that they produce.  It's time
to add some dynamic information to your webhook template.

> Your colleages in Data Science have adjusted their daily `cron` scripts to `POST` a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your colleagues on the team have adjusted their daily `cron` scripts to `POST` a
```

> small body that includes the ID and name of the model that was just refreshed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
small body that includes the ID and name of the model that was updated:
```

```bash
curl \
    -d "model=recommendations" \
    -d "friendly_name=Recommendations%20[Products]" \
    -X POST https://api.prefect.cloud/hooks/AERylZ_uewzpDx-8fcweHQ
```

This means that they are sending a `POST` request and the body will include a

> traditional URL-encoded form with two fields `model` and `friendly_name` describing the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
traditional URL-encoded form with two fields describing the model that was updated: `model` and `friendly_name`.
```

> model that was just refreshed.  To receive these in your template and produce different

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's the webhook code that uses Jinja to receive these values in your template and produce different
```

events for the different models:

```jinja2
{
    "event": "model.refreshed",
    "resource": {
        "prefect.resource.id": "product.models.{{ body.model }}",
        "prefect.resource.name": "{{ body.friendly_name }}",
        "producing-team": "Data Science"
    }
}
```

> All of the subsequent `POST` requests will start to produce events with those variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All subsequent `POST` requests will produce events with those variable
```

> resource IDs and names.  The other statically-defined parts, like `event` or the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resource IDs and names.  The other statically-defined parts, such as `event` or the
```

> `producing-team` label you included will still be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`producing-team` label you included earlier will still be used.
```

!!! tip "Use Jinja2's `default` filter to handle missing values"

    Jinja2 has a helpful [`default`](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/#jinja-filters.default)

>     filter, which can compensate for missing values in the request.  In this example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    filter that can compensate for missing values in the request.  In this example,
```

>     you may want to use the model's ID in place of the friendly name when it is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    you may want to use the model's ID in place of the friendly name when the friendly name is not
```

    available: `{{ body.friendly_name|default(body.model) }}`.

> ### How HTTP request components are handled

Reviewer 2: Lots of great tips here!

{{ headers['Content-Length'] }}

{{ headers['content-length'] }}

{{ headers['CoNtEnt-LeNgTh'] }}
```

The HTTP request body goes through some light preprocessing to make it more useful in
templates.  If the `Content-Type` of the request is `application/json`, the body will be
parsed as a JSON object and made available to the webhook templates.  If the
`Content-Type` is `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` (as in our example above), the
body is parsed into a flat `dict`-like object of key-value pairs.  Jinja2 supports both
index and attribute access to the fields of these objects, so the following two
expressions are equivalent:

```jinja2
{{ body['friendly_name'] }}

{{ body.friendly_name }}
```

!!! tip "Only for Python identifiers"

    Jinja2's syntax only allows attribute-like access if the key is a valid Python
    identifier, so `body.friendly-name` will not work.  Use `body['friendly-name']` in
    those cases.

You may not have much control over the client invoking your webhook, but would still
like for bodies that look like JSON to be parsed as such.  Prefect Cloud will attempt to
parse any other content type (like `text/plain`) as if it were JSON first.  In any case

> where the body cannot be understood as JSON, it will be made available to your templates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where the body cannot be transformed into JSON, it will be made available to your templates
```

as a Python `str`.

### Accepting Prefect events directly

In cases where you have more control over the client, your webhook can accept Prefect

> events directly with a simple "pass-through" template:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
events directly with a simple pass-through template:
```

```jinja2
{{ body|tojson }}
```

This template accepts the incoming body (assuming it was in JSON format) and just passes

> it through unmodified.  This allows a `POST` of a partial Prefect event as in:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it through unmodified.  This allows a `POST` of a partial Prefect event as in this example:
```

other fields as described [above](#event-fields-that-prefect-cloud-populates-for-you).

### Accepting CloudEvents

The [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://cncf.io) has standardized
[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io) for use by systems to exchange event information
in a common format.  These events are supported by major cloud providers and a growing
number of cloud-native systems.  Prefect Cloud can interpret a webhook containing
a CloudEvent natively with the following template:

```jinja2
{{ body|from_cloud_event(headers) }}
```

The resulting event will use the CloudEvent's `subject` as the resource (or the
`source` if no `subject` is available).  The CloudEvent's `data` attribute will become
the Prefect event's `payload['data']`, and the other CloudEvent metadata will be at
`payload['cloudevents']`.  If you would like to handle CloudEvents in a more specific
way tailored to your use case, use a dynamic template to interpret the incoming `body`.

## Troubleshooting

The initial configuration of your webhook may require some trial and error as you get
the sender and your receiving webhook speaking a compatible language.  While you are in

> this phase, you may find the [Event Feed](/cloud/events/#event-feed) to be indispensible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this phase, you may find the [Event Feed](/cloud/events/#event-feed) in the UI to be indispensable
```
